README.md, before:

## AMD view! plugin.

Compatible with [curl.js](https://github.com/cujojs/curl) and [require.js](http://requirejs.org).

This plugin loads text/html file using `text!` plugin,
parses and processes dependency directives (tags) that are found in the file content,
removes/replaces them in the content and loads the specified dependencies before returning result.
The "refined" file content will be returned as resource value.

Dependency directive is a tag (by default `<link>` and `<x-link>` tags are processed) that can have one of the following forms
(parts in square brackets are optional, alternatives are separated by |):

* `<tag-name rel="stylesheet|css" href="[plugin!]path/to/some/style.css">` - specifies CSS-file that should be loaded along with resource;
    CSS-files can be loaded by `css!` or `link!` plugin; the plugin that should be used by default can be set in configuration settings.
* `<tag-name rel="require|x-require" [type="plugin"] href="[plugin!]path/to/some/dependency">` - specifies dependency that should be loaded along with resource;
    `plugin` that should be used for resource loading can be set in `type` attribute or inside the resource name.
* `<tag-name rel="include|x-include" [type="plugin"] href="[plugin!]path/to/some/inclusion.html" [data-param="value"]>` - specifies inclusion that should be inserted 
    inside the resource content instead of the directive; `plugin` that should be used for resource loading can be set in `type` attribute or inside the resource name;
    the default plugin can be specified in configuration settings.

The following directives are equal (supposed that `css!` is the default plugin for CSS-files loading):
```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/some/style.css">
<x-link rel="css" href="css!path/to/some/style.css">
<link rel="x-require" href="css!path/to/some/style.css">
<x-link rel="require" type="css" href="path/to/some/style.css">
```

## Inclusions

Inclusions allows composing the result from different parts which can be customized before injection.
Inclusion directive has the following form (parts in square brackets are optional, alternatives are separated by |):

```html
<tag-name rel="include|x-include" [type="plugin"] href="[plugin!]path/to/some/inclusion.html" [data-if="condition" data-param1="value1" data-param2="value2" ...]>
```

The resource that is specified inside the inclusion directive can result to plain text, a function or an object with `execute` method. 
In case of function/method the function/method will be called and the returned value will be used as the substitute for the directive.

`data-` attributes can be set inside the directive. They form special `data` object that will be passed into the inclusion resource function.
Fields of `data` object are attributes names (without `data-` prefix), values are corresponding attributes values.
For the directive above, the `data` object will be the following:

    {
        "if": "condition",
        "param1": "value1",
        "param2": "value2",
        ...
    }

You should not use `>` (greater than sign) in values of attributes because this sign represents the end of directive's tag.

`data-if` attribute is interpreted in a special way. Its value is used to determine whether the directive should be processed.
If result of the value processing is true, the directive will be processed. Otherwise the directive will be deleted.

By default eval'ing is used to process value of `data-if` attribute.
But this behavior can be redefined by using `processIf` configuration setting.

eval'ing is made by using call of anonymous function. The function is called in context of parameter 
that is passed in `processIf` function (see below for details).
Object representing configuration settings is passed as the function parameter with name `data`.

## Configuration

The following configuration settings are supported (name - type - can it be set in resource name? - description):

* `cssLoader` - String - Yes - name of plugin (`'css'` or `'link'`) that should be used to load a CSS-file 
     when loader is not specified in resource name; the default value is `'css'`
* `defaultExt` - String - Yes - default file extension that is used if it is not specified in resource name;
     the default value is `'html'`
* `defaultInclusionExt` - String - Yes - default file extension for inclusions that will be inserted into result;
     the default value is `'html'`
* `directiveTag` - Array, String - No - name(s) of tags that should be parsed and processed as dependency directives;
     the default value is `['link', 'x-link']`
* `dontAddFileExt` - RegExp, String, null - regular expression or string defining such expression that should be used to filter names
     for which default file extension (defined by `defaultExt` or `defaultInclusionExt` setting) should not be added;
     if regular expression test for a name results to `true`, addition of default file extension will be skipped;
     the default value is `null` (filter is not used)
* `findTag` - Function - No - function that should be used to find next tag which can represent the dependency directive;
     the function takes three parameters: the text, start position for search and the settings object;
     the function should return an object with the following fields:
     + `name` - String - name of found tag
     + `position` - Integer - position of found tag (namely position of the corresponding &lt; (less than sign))
     + `tagStart` - String - start of found tag ending by a space (i.e. "&lt;tag-name ")
* `filterTag` - Function - No - function that should be used to determine whether a tag is useful 
     and defines a dependency or the tag should be simply deleted;
     the function takes three parameters: the text, object tag attributes and the settings object;
     the function should return true for a useful tag and false for a tag that should be deleted
* `inclusionLoader` - String - Yes - name of plugin that should be used to load an inclusion file 
     when loader is not specified in resource name; the default value is `'view'`
* `parse` - Function - No - function that should be used to parse the loaded text;
     the function takes two parameters: the text and the settings object;
     the function should return an object with the following fields:
     + `resource` - String - text after processing.
     + `depList` - Array - list of found dependencies.
     + `inclusionMap` - Object - an optional field that is describing dependencies that should be included into the resource's content;
             object's fields are inclusion names, field values are objects describing corresponding inclusions (see `processTag` for details).
* `processIf` - Function - No - function that should be used to process the value of `data-if` attribute of inclusion directive
     to determine whether the directive should be processed;
     the function takes the object with the following fields:
     + `attrMap` - Object - attributes of the tag of inclusion directive; keys are attribute names, values are corresponding values
     + `condition` - String - value of `data-if` attribute which should be used to determine whether inclusion directive should be processed
     + `resource` - String - resource name from inclusion directive
     + `settings` - Object - processing settings/configuration
     + `tagText` - String - text of the tag of inclusion directive
* `processTag` - Function - No - function that should be used to process a tag found during parsing;
     the function takes 3 parameters: the tag text, the object representing tag attributes and 
     the settings object; the function should return an object with the following fields:
     + `dependency` - Array, String, null - a dependency or a list of dependencies
             that is corresponding to the tag.
     + `inclusion` - Object, null - an optional field indicating that the dependency's content should be included into the resource's content;
             the field's value is the object with the following fields (name - type - description):
             - `data` - `Object, undefined` - data that should be used to process the inclusion (optional field);
                     data fields can be set in `data-` attributes of the inclusion tag;
                     the found attributes form contents of `data` object:
                     fields are attributes names (without `data-` prefix), values are corresponding attributes values
             - `name` - `String` - the name of inclusion
     + `text` - String - a tag text after processing; the text will substitute for the original text.

Configuration example for `curl.js`:
```js
// Before curl.js loading
var curl = {
    packages: {
        view: {
            location: "path/to/plugins/view",
            main: "view"
        }
    },
    pluginPath: "path/to/plugins",
    plugins: {
        view: {
            defaultExt: "view",
            defaultInclusionExt: "inc",
            dontAddFileExt: /^proc!/,
            inclusionLoader: "text"
        }
    }
};
```

Configuration example for `require.js`:
```js
require.config({
    packages: [
        {
            name: "view",
            location: "path/to/plugins/view",
            main: "view"
        }
    ],
    paths: {
        css: "path/to/plugins/css",
        text: "path/to/plugins/text"
    },
    config: {
        "view/view": {
            defaultExt: "view",
            defaultInclusionExt: "inc",
            dontAddFileExt: /^proc!/,
            inclusionLoader: "text"
        }
    }
});
```

Some configuration settings can be defined in resource name in the following format:

`
name=value[;name=value...]
`

## Dependencies

* `text`, `css` and `link` plugins
* utility modules from `util` subdirectory

## Usage

```javascript
// loads some/folder/view.html
define(['view!some/folder/view.html'], {});

// loads some/folder/view.html (supposed that 'html' is set as default extension)
// and uses link plugin to load found CSS-files
define(['view!some/folder/view!cssLoader=link'], {});
```

See examples for details.

## Related project

Possibly you might find helpful [amd-proc-plugin](https://github.com/gamtiq/amd-proc-plugin).

## Licence

MIT

Commit message:

Ability  to dynamically redefine default settings

README.md, after:

## AMD view! plugin.

Compatible with [curl.js](https://github.com/cujojs/curl) and [require.js](http://requirejs.org).

This plugin loads text/html file using `text!` plugin,
parses and processes dependency directives (tags) that are found in the file content,
removes/replaces them in the content and loads the specified dependencies before returning result.
The "refined" file content will be returned as resource value.

Dependency directive is a tag (by default `<link>` and `<x-link>` tags are processed) that can have one of the following forms
(parts in square brackets are optional, alternatives are separated by |):

* `<tag-name rel="stylesheet|css" href="[plugin!]path/to/some/style.css">` - specifies CSS-file that should be loaded along with resource;
    CSS-files can be loaded by `css!` or `link!` plugin; the plugin that should be used by default can be set in configuration settings.
* `<tag-name rel="require|x-require" [type="plugin"] href="[plugin!]path/to/some/dependency">` - specifies dependency that should be loaded along with resource;
    `plugin` that should be used for resource loading can be set in `type` attribute or inside the resource name.
* `<tag-name rel="include|x-include" [type="plugin"] href="[plugin!]path/to/some/inclusion.html" [data-param="value"]>` - specifies inclusion that should be inserted 
    inside the resource content instead of the directive; `plugin` that should be used for resource loading can be set in `type` attribute or inside the resource name;
    the default plugin can be specified in configuration settings.

The following directives are equal (supposed that `css!` is the default plugin for CSS-files loading):
```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/some/style.css">
<x-link rel="css" href="css!path/to/some/style.css">
<link rel="x-require" href="css!path/to/some/style.css">
<x-link rel="require" type="css" href="path/to/some/style.css">
```

## Inclusions

Inclusions allows composing the result from different parts which can be customized before injection.
Inclusion directive has the following form (parts in square brackets are optional, alternatives are separated by |):

```html
<tag-name rel="include|x-include" [type="plugin"] href="[plugin!]path/to/some/inclusion.html" [data-if="condition" data-param1="value1" data-param2="value2" ...]>
```

The resource that is specified inside the inclusion directive can result to plain text, a function or an object with `execute` method. 
In case of function/method the function/method will be called and the returned value will be used as the substitute for the directive.

`data-` attributes can be set inside the directive. They form special `data` object that will be passed into the inclusion resource function.
Fields of `data` object are attributes names (without `data-` prefix), values are corresponding attributes values.
For the directive above, the `data` object will be the following:

    {
        "if": "condition",
        "param1": "value1",
        "param2": "value2",
        ...
    }

You should not use `>` (greater than sign) in values of attributes because this sign represents the end of directive's tag.

`data-if` attribute is interpreted in a special way. Its value is used to determine whether the directive should be processed.
If result of the value processing is true, the directive will be processed. Otherwise the directive will be deleted.

By default eval'ing is used to process value of `data-if` attribute.
But this behavior can be redefined by using `processIf` configuration setting.

eval'ing is made by using call of anonymous function. The function is called in context of parameter 
that is passed in `processIf` function (see below for details).
Object representing configuration settings is passed as the function parameter with name `data`.

## Configuration

The following configuration settings are supported (name - type - can it be set in resource name? - description):

* `cssLoader` - String - Yes - name of plugin (`'css'` or `'link'`) that should be used to load a CSS-file 
     when loader is not specified in resource name; the default value is `'css'`
* `defaultExt` - String - Yes - default file extension that is used if it is not specified in resource name;
     the default value is `'html'`
* `defaultInclusionExt` - String - Yes - default file extension for inclusions that will be inserted into result;
     the default value is `'html'`
* `directiveTag` - Array, String - No - name(s) of tags that should be parsed and processed as dependency directives;
     the default value is `['link', 'x-link']`
* `dontAddFileExt` - RegExp, String, null - regular expression or string defining such expression that should be used to filter names
     for which default file extension (defined by `defaultExt` or `defaultInclusionExt` setting) should not be added;
     if regular expression test for a name results to `true`, addition of default file extension will be skipped;
     the default value is `null` (filter is not used)
* `findTag` - Function - No - function that should be used to find next tag which can represent the dependency directive;
     the function takes three parameters: the text, start position for search and the settings object;
     the function should return an object with the following fields:
     + `name` - String - name of found tag
     + `position` - Integer - position of found tag (namely position of the corresponding &lt; (less than sign))
     + `tagStart` - String - start of found tag ending by a space (i.e. "&lt;tag-name ")
* `filterTag` - Function - No - function that should be used to determine whether a tag is useful 
     and defines a dependency or the tag should be simply deleted;
     the function takes three parameters: the text, object tag attributes and the settings object;
     the function should return true for a useful tag and false for a tag that should be deleted
* `inclusionLoader` - String - Yes - name of plugin that should be used to load an inclusion file 
     when loader is not specified in resource name; the default value is `'view'`
* `parse` - Function - No - function that should be used to parse the loaded text;
     the function takes two parameters: the text and the settings object;
     the function should return an object with the following fields:
     + `resource` - String - text after processing.
     + `depList` - Array - list of found dependencies.
     + `inclusionMap` - Object - an optional field that is describing dependencies that should be included into the resource's content;
             object's fields are inclusion names, field values are objects describing corresponding inclusions (see `processTag` for details).
* `processIf` - Function - No - function that should be used to process the value of `data-if` attribute of inclusion directive
     to determine whether the directive should be processed;
     the function takes the object with the following fields:
     + `attrMap` - Object - attributes of the tag of inclusion directive; keys are attribute names, values are corresponding values
     + `condition` - String - value of `data-if` attribute which should be used to determine whether inclusion directive should be processed
     + `resource` - String - resource name from inclusion directive
     + `settings` - Object - processing settings/configuration
     + `tagText` - String - text of the tag of inclusion directive
* `processTag` - Function - No - function that should be used to process a tag found during parsing;
     the function takes 3 parameters: the tag text, the object representing tag attributes and 
     the settings object; the function should return an object with the following fields:
     + `dependency` - Array, String, null - a dependency or a list of dependencies
             that is corresponding to the tag.
     + `inclusion` - Object, null - an optional field indicating that the dependency's content should be included into the resource's content;
             the field's value is the object with the following fields (name - type - description):
             - `data` - `Object, undefined` - data that should be used to process the inclusion (optional field);
                     data fields can be set in `data-` attributes of the inclusion tag;
                     the found attributes form contents of `data` object:
                     fields are attributes names (without `data-` prefix), values are corresponding attributes values
             - `name` - `String` - the name of inclusion
     + `text` - String - a tag text after processing; the text will substitute for the original text.

Configuration example for `curl.js`:
```js
// Before curl.js loading
var curl = {
    packages: {
        view: {
            location: "path/to/plugins/view",
            main: "view"
        }
    },
    pluginPath: "path/to/plugins",
    plugins: {
        view: {
            defaultExt: "view",
            defaultInclusionExt: "inc",
            dontAddFileExt: /^proc!/,
            inclusionLoader: "text"
        }
    }
};
```

Configuration example for `require.js`:
```js
require.config({
    packages: [
        {
            name: "view",
            location: "path/to/plugins/view",
            main: "view"
        }
    ],
    paths: {
        css: "path/to/plugins/css",
        text: "path/to/plugins/text"
    },
    config: {
        "view/view": {
            defaultExt: "view",
            defaultInclusionExt: "inc",
            dontAddFileExt: /^proc!/,
            inclusionLoader: "text"
        }
    }
});
```

Some configuration settings can be defined in resource name in the following format:

`
name=value[;name=value...]
`

The plugin API object that is returned as the plugin's module definition contains `reconfig` field whose value is an object.
The object can be used to dynamically redefine default values of configuration settings.
For that purpose it is necessary to add in the object a field with name of the setting whose value should be changed.

## Dependencies

* `text`, `css` and `link` plugins
* utility modules from `util` subdirectory

## Usage

```javascript
// loads some/folder/view.html
define(['view!some/folder/view.html'], {});

// loads some/folder/view.html (supposed that 'html' is set as default extension)
// and uses link plugin to load found CSS-files
define(['view!some/folder/view!cssLoader=link'], {});
```

See examples for details.

## Related project

Possibly you might find helpful [amd-proc-plugin](https://github.com/gamtiq/amd-proc-plugin).

## Licence

MIT
